Documentation.md, before:

# Documentation Example

Some introductory sentence(s). Data set and task are relatively fixed, so 
probably you don't have much to say about them (unless you modifed them).
If you haven't changed the application much, there's also not much to say about
that.
The following structure thus only covers preprocessing, feature extraction,
dimensionality reduction, classification, and evaluation.

# Documentation on Tweet-Prediction Project
This file documents the development process of our tweet prediction tool. 

# Goal
Initial goal: "Predict viral tweets"

## Evaluation

For the evaluation of our classifier, we chose several evaluation metrics in 
order to evaluate the performance from different perspectives.
In addition to the accuracy and Cohen's Kappa that were already implemented, 
we decided to add the F Beta Score and the sensitivity. In the following, 
we shortly explain all four of our metrics and motivate the addition of
F Beta and Sensitivity. 

### Design Decisions

Which evaluation metrics did you use and why? 
Which baselines did you use and why?

#### Accuracy 
Accuracy is the proportion of true results among the total number of cases 
examined. Though widely used as evaluation metric, it is ill-suited for 
unbalanced class distributions as given in our datset. Therefore other 
evaluation metrics like the following are more meaningful in this context. 

#### Cohen's Kappa
Cohen's Kappa adjusts the accuracy for random agreement and is therefore much
more robust against imbalanced class distributions, giving a clearer picture of
the classifier's performance.

#### F Beta Score 
The F Beta Score is a value between 0 and 1, representing a tradeoff between
precision and recall. We decided to use this evaluation metric, as we want our 
model to catch the viral tweets (high recall) without being overly imprecise 
(high precision). The F Beta Score allows for exactly that while also being 
robust against the imbalance of classes in the data.
However by choosing the F Beta score instead of the F1 Score, we have the 
possibility of adjusting the weighting of precision and recall if we find our 
model to miss most of the viral tweets in the attempt of achieving a high 
precision. 

#### Sensitivity 
Sensitivity refers to the true positive rate and summarizes how well the 
positive class has been predicted. Similar to precision in recall, sensitivity 
focuses only on one of the classes (the viral tweets), thereby being robust 
against the imbalanced distribution of viral versus non-viral tweets in the 
dataset. We decided to use this in addition to the fbeta score, as it 
explicitly tells us how well the model did in predicting the positive class, in
our case, the viral tweets. As this matches our goal alomost perfectly, we 
consider this as an important metric to evaluate whether we reached our goal.

### Results

How do the baselines perform with respect to the evaluation metrics?

### Interpretation

Is there anything we can learn from these results?

## Preprocessing

I'm following the "Design Decisions - Results - Interpretation" structure here,
but you can also just use one subheading per preprocessing step to organize
things (depending on what you do, that may be better structured).

### Design Decisions

Which kind of preprocessing steps did you implement? Why are they necessary
and/or useful down the road?

Before any of the other preprocessing steps, we decided to remove any
unnecessary data to keep it as simple as possible. We did this by first
manually checking for columns with a low rate of entries and then
(computationally) checking for rows with empty tweet entries. All columns and
rows that we found to be not informative as described above were removed. 

For the preprocessing of our data, we decided to convert the tweets to
lowercase in addition to the removal of the punctuation and the tokenization.

We are aware that punctuation and uppercase letters could be used as features
to see if tweets containing, e.g. a lot of exclamation marks or "yelled words"
are likely to become viral. However, we decided to remove them in order to
facilitate subsequent content analyses. In case this decision might be revoked
later, a solution might be to simply count their occurences and normalize them
with regard to the length of the tweet.

In order to enable further preprocessiong steps, like lemmatization, the tweets
were broken down into basic building blocks, i.e. single words by tokenization.
Above that, for the same reason, the preprocessing step of removing the
stopwords (like is, a, they) was implemented.

First, our idea was to lemmatize the tweet after tokenizing it to optimize the
data for the subsequent content analysis. The reason why we initially chose the
approach of lemmatization over stemming was that in stemming, words are merely
cut and not mapped to a meaningful base form like in lemmatization. Therefore,
we assumed that, e.g. the word "caring" would become "car" with stemming,
whereas lemmatization would correctly transform it to "care". Therefore, we
implemented lemmatization, taking into account that it might be computationally
more expensive. However when taking a look at the data after this preprocessing
step, we were quite disappointed. Words like "detailed" or "dropping" were not
transformed to "detail" and "drop" as expected, but stayed the same. So long
story short, this is why we also implemented a stemmer. This way, we can ensure
that words with different inflections are cut to the same root form, though
they might be incorrect in meaning or spelling. 


### Results

Maybe show a short example what your preprocessing does.

### Interpretation

Probably, no real interpretation possible, so feel free to leave this section
out.

## Feature Extraction

Again, either structure among decision-result-interpretation or based on
feature, up to you.

### Design Decisions

Which features did you implement? What's their motivation and how are they
computed?

In order to check for correlations regarding the sentiment of a tweet and its
virality, we decided to categorize them into the three categories "positive",
"neutral" and "negative". To facilitate the further handling of these values,
we applied one hot encoding to map these strings to binary numbers.
For the categorization, we used the compound score of the
SentimentIntensityAnalyzer's polarity_scores function. According to
https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment#about-the-scoring :
- positive sentiment: compound score >= 0.05
- neutral sentiment: (compound score > -0.05) and (compound score < 0.05)
- negative sentiment: compound score <= -0.05
We decided against using the compound score as it is and categorizing the data
instead to ensure a better comparibility.

### Results

Can you say something about how the feature values are distributed? Maybe show
some plots?

### Interpretation

Can we already guess which features may be more useful than others?

## Dimensionality Reduction

If you didn't use any because you have only few features, just state that here.
In that case, you can nevertheless apply some dimensionality reduction in order
to analyze how helpful the individual features are during classification

### Design Decisions

Which dimensionality reduction technique(s) did you pick and why?

### Results

Which features were selected / created? Do you have any scores to report?

### Interpretation

Can we somehow make sense of the dimensionality reduction results?
Which features are the most important ones and why may that be the case?

## Classification

### Design Decisions

Which classifier(s) did you use? Which hyperparameter(s) (with their respective
candidate values) did you look at? What were your reasons for this?

### Results

The big finale begins: What are the evaluation results you obtained with your
classifiers in the different setups? Do you overfit or underfit? For the best
selected setup: How well does it generalize to the test set?

### Interpretation

Which hyperparameter settings are how important for the results?
How good are we? Can this be used in practice or are we still too bad?
Anything else we may have learned?

Commit message:

updated readme and doc on link removal

Documentation.md, after:

# Documentation Example

Some introductory sentence(s). Data set and task are relatively fixed, so 
probably you don't have much to say about them (unless you modifed them).
If you haven't changed the application much, there's also not much to say about
that.
The following structure thus only covers preprocessing, feature extraction,
dimensionality reduction, classification, and evaluation.

# Documentation on Tweet-Prediction Project
This file documents the development process of our tweet prediction tool. 

# Goal
Initial goal: "Predict viral tweets"

## Evaluation

For the evaluation of our classifier, we chose several evaluation metrics in 
order to evaluate the performance from different perspectives.
In addition to the accuracy and Cohen's Kappa that were already implemented, 
we decided to add the F Beta Score and the sensitivity. In the following, 
we shortly explain all four of our metrics and motivate the addition of
F Beta and Sensitivity. 

### Design Decisions

Which evaluation metrics did you use and why? 
Which baselines did you use and why?

#### Accuracy 
Accuracy is the proportion of true results among the total number of cases 
examined. Though widely used as evaluation metric, it is ill-suited for 
unbalanced class distributions as given in our datset. Therefore other 
evaluation metrics like the following are more meaningful in this context. 

#### Cohen's Kappa
Cohen's Kappa adjusts the accuracy for random agreement and is therefore much
more robust against imbalanced class distributions, giving a clearer picture of
the classifier's performance.

#### F Beta Score 
The F Beta Score is a value between 0 and 1, representing a tradeoff between
precision and recall. We decided to use this evaluation metric, as we want our 
model to catch the viral tweets (high recall) without being overly imprecise 
(high precision). The F Beta Score allows for exactly that while also being 
robust against the imbalance of classes in the data.
However by choosing the F Beta score instead of the F1 Score, we have the 
possibility of adjusting the weighting of precision and recall if we find our 
model to miss most of the viral tweets in the attempt of achieving a high 
precision. 

#### Sensitivity 
Sensitivity refers to the true positive rate and summarizes how well the 
positive class has been predicted. Similar to precision in recall, sensitivity 
focuses only on one of the classes (the viral tweets), thereby being robust 
against the imbalanced distribution of viral versus non-viral tweets in the 
dataset. We decided to use this in addition to the fbeta score, as it 
explicitly tells us how well the model did in predicting the positive class, in
our case, the viral tweets. As this matches our goal alomost perfectly, we 
consider this as an important metric to evaluate whether we reached our goal.

### Results

How do the baselines perform with respect to the evaluation metrics?

### Interpretation

Is there anything we can learn from these results?

## Preprocessing

I'm following the "Design Decisions - Results - Interpretation" structure here,
but you can also just use one subheading per preprocessing step to organize
things (depending on what you do, that may be better structured).

### Design Decisions

Which kind of preprocessing steps did you implement? Why are they necessary
and/or useful down the road?

Before any of the other preprocessing steps, we decided to remove any
unnecessary data to keep it as simple as possible. We did this by first
manually checking for columns with a low rate of entries and then
(computationally) checking for rows with empty tweet entries. All columns and
rows that we found to be not informative as described above were removed. 

Following that, we removed all links from the original tweets to keep them from
interfering with the extraction of topics that is performed 
later in the preprocessing. This could otherwise be the case, as the topic 
extraction is performed with the tfidf methodology, which oftentimes rates links 
with high scores. As the links are not only present in the tweets, but also 
stored in a separate column of the dataset, their is no loss of information by
the removal of those in the tweets.

For the preprocessing of our data, we decided to convert the tweets to
lowercase in addition to the removal of the punctuation and the tokenization.

We are aware that punctuation and uppercase letters could be used as features
to see if tweets containing, e.g. a lot of exclamation marks or "yelled words"
are likely to become viral. However, we decided to remove them in order to
facilitate subsequent content analyses. In case this decision might be revoked
later, a solution might be to simply count their occurences and normalize them
with regard to the length of the tweet.

In order to enable further preprocessiong steps, like lemmatization, the tweets
were broken down into basic building blocks, i.e. single words by tokenization.
Above that, for the same reason, the preprocessing step of removing the
stopwords (like is, a, they) was implemented.

First, our idea was to lemmatize the tweet after tokenizing it to optimize the
data for the subsequent content analysis. The reason why we initially chose the
approach of lemmatization over stemming was that in stemming, words are merely
cut and not mapped to a meaningful base form like in lemmatization. Therefore,
we assumed that, e.g. the word "caring" would become "car" with stemming,
whereas lemmatization would correctly transform it to "care". Therefore, we
implemented lemmatization, taking into account that it might be computationally
more expensive. However when taking a look at the data after this preprocessing
step, we were quite disappointed. Words like "detailed" or "dropping" were not
transformed to "detail" and "drop" as expected, but stayed the same. So long
story short, this is why we also implemented a stemmer. This way, we can ensure
that words with different inflections are cut to the same root form, though
they might be incorrect in meaning or spelling. 


### Results

Maybe show a short example what your preprocessing does.

### Interpretation

Probably, no real interpretation possible, so feel free to leave this section
out.

## Feature Extraction

Again, either structure among decision-result-interpretation or based on
feature, up to you.

### Design Decisions

Which features did you implement? What's their motivation and how are they
computed?

In order to check for correlations regarding the sentiment of a tweet and its
virality, we decided to categorize them into the three categories "positive",
"neutral" and "negative". To facilitate the further handling of these values,
we applied one hot encoding to map these strings to binary numbers.
For the categorization, we used the compound score of the
SentimentIntensityAnalyzer's polarity_scores function. According to
https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment#about-the-scoring :
- positive sentiment: compound score >= 0.05
- neutral sentiment: (compound score > -0.05) and (compound score < 0.05)
- negative sentiment: compound score <= -0.05
We decided against using the compound score as it is and categorizing the data
instead to ensure a better comparibility.

### Results

Can you say something about how the feature values are distributed? Maybe show
some plots?

### Interpretation

Can we already guess which features may be more useful than others?

## Dimensionality Reduction

If you didn't use any because you have only few features, just state that here.
In that case, you can nevertheless apply some dimensionality reduction in order
to analyze how helpful the individual features are during classification

### Design Decisions

Which dimensionality reduction technique(s) did you pick and why?

### Results

Which features were selected / created? Do you have any scores to report?

### Interpretation

Can we somehow make sense of the dimensionality reduction results?
Which features are the most important ones and why may that be the case?

## Classification

### Design Decisions

Which classifier(s) did you use? Which hyperparameter(s) (with their respective
candidate values) did you look at? What were your reasons for this?

### Results

The big finale begins: What are the evaluation results you obtained with your
classifiers in the different setups? Do you overfit or underfit? For the best
selected setup: How well does it generalize to the test set?

### Interpretation

Which hyperparameter settings are how important for the results?
How good are we? Can this be used in practice or are we still too bad?
Anything else we may have learned?
